{{ cookiecutter.repo_name }}/README.md, before:

# {{cookiecutter.project_name}}

Repository is created with deepsense.ai project template boilerplate. Adapt to your needs.
Documentation is available at [https://deepsense-ai.github.io/ds-template/](https://deepsense-ai.github.io/ds-template/).


# Setup developer environment

To start, you need to setup your local machine.

## Setup venv

You need to setup virtual environment, simplest way is to run from project root directory:

```bash
$ . ./setup_dev_env.sh
$ source venv/bin/activate
```
This will create a new venv and run `pip install -r requirements-dev.txt`.
Last line shows how to activate the environment.

## Install pre-commit

To ensure code quality we use pre-commit hook with several checks. Setup it by:

```
pre-commit install
```

All updated files will be reformatted and linted before the commit.

To reformat and lint all files in the project, use:

`pre-commit run --all-files`

The used linters are configured in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`. You can use `pre-commit autoupdate` to bump tools to the latest versions.

## Autoreload within notebooks

When you install project's package add below code (before imports) in your notebook:
```
# Load the "autoreload" extension
%load_ext autoreload
# Change mode to always reload modules: you change code in src, it gets loaded
%autoreload 2
```
Read more about different modes in [documentation](https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/config/extensions/autoreload.html).

All code should be in `src/` to make reusability and review straightforward, keep notebooks simple for exploratory data analysis.
See also [Cookiecutter Data Science opinion](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/#notebooks-are-for-exploration-and-communication).

# Project documentation

In `docs/` directory are Sphinx RST/Markdown files.

To build documentation locally, in your configured environment, you can use `build_docs.sh` script:

```bash
$ ./build_docs.sh
```

Then open `public/index.html` file.

Please read the official [Sphinx documentation](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) for more details.

{% if cookiecutter.ci == "GitLab" %}

### GitLab Pages Documentation

By default **Gitlab** pipelines have `pages` step which will build sphinx documentation automatically on main branch - and it will push it to **GitLab Pages** to be statically hosted.

To access it, you need to have a link, which can be found on **GitLab -> Settings -> Pages** page.

Only people with repository access can view it.

Please read more about it [here](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/index.html).

{%- endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.ci == "Github" %}

### Github Actions Documentation

By default **Github Actions** pipelines have `documentation` workflow which will build sphinx documentation automatically on main branch - and it will push it to a branch - it can be hosted on **Github Pages** if you enable it.

To access it, you need to enable it, on **Github repository -> Settings -> Pages** page select **Deploy from a branch** and select **gh-pages**. Link will appear here after deployment.

**WARNING:** Only on Github Enterprise you can make it private so only people with repository access can view it.

Please read more about it [here](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart).

{%- endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.jupytext == "Yes" %}

# Jupyter notebooks and jupytext

To make notebooks more friendly for code review and version control we use `jupytext` to sync notebooks with python files. If you have not used it before, please read [jupytext documentation](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

There is pre-commit hook which automatically generates and syncs notebooks with python files on each commit.

Please ensure you do not edit/modify manually or by other means generated py:percent files as they will conflict with jupytext change detection and lead to endless loop.
Treat them as read-only files and edit only notebooks.

{%- endif -%}

# Semantic version bump

To bump version of the library please use `bump2version` which will update all version strings.

NOTE: Configuration is in `.bumpversion.cfg` and **this is a main file defining version which should be updated only with bump2version**.

For convenience there is bash script which will create commit, to use it call:

```bash
# to create a new commit by increasing one semvar:
$ ./bump_version.sh minor
$ ./bump_version.sh major
$ ./bump_version.sh patch
# to see what is going to change run:
$ ./bump_version.sh --dry-run major
```
Script updates **VERSION** file and setup.cfg automatically uses that version.

You can configure it to update version string in other files as well - please check out the bump2version configuration file.

{% if cookiecutter.ci == "GitLab" %}

On GitLab CI, you can build development, test package and upload it manually as minor.major.patch-dev{BUILD_NUMBER} to PIP registry.

Every MR keeps package for 7 days each (check `package` artifact).

On the main branch you can trigger _release_ which uploads minor.major.patch version to PIP registry.

{% endif %}

Commit message:

added Semantic Release part + made docs and bumpversion optional

{{ cookiecutter.repo_name }}/README.md, after:

# {{cookiecutter.project_name}}

Repository is created with deepsense.ai project template boilerplate. Adapt to your needs.
Documentation is available at [https://deepsense-ai.github.io/ds-template/](https://deepsense-ai.github.io/ds-template/).


# Setup developer environment

To start, you need to setup your local machine.

## Setup venv

You need to setup virtual environment, simplest way is to run from project root directory:

```bash
$ . ./setup_dev_env.sh
$ source venv/bin/activate
```
This will create a new venv and run `pip install -r requirements-dev.txt`.
Last line shows how to activate the environment.

## Install pre-commit

To ensure code quality we use pre-commit hook with several checks. Setup it by:

```
pre-commit install
```

All updated files will be reformatted and linted before the commit.

To reformat and lint all files in the project, use:

`pre-commit run --all-files`

The used linters are configured in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`. You can use `pre-commit autoupdate` to bump tools to the latest versions.

## Autoreload within notebooks

When you install project's package add below code (before imports) in your notebook:
```
# Load the "autoreload" extension
%load_ext autoreload
# Change mode to always reload modules: you change code in src, it gets loaded
%autoreload 2
```
Read more about different modes in [documentation](https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/config/extensions/autoreload.html).

All code should be in `src/` to make reusability and review straightforward, keep notebooks simple for exploratory data analysis.
See also [Cookiecutter Data Science opinion](https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/#notebooks-are-for-exploration-and-communication).

{%- if cookiecutter.docs != "No docs" %}
# Project documentation

In `docs/` directory are Sphinx RST/Markdown files.

To build documentation locally, in your configured environment, you can use `build_docs.sh` script:

```bash
$ ./build_docs.sh
```

Then open `public/index.html` file.

Please read the official [Sphinx documentation](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) for more details.
{% endif -%}

{% if cookiecutter.ci == "GitLab" %}

### GitLab Pages Documentation

By default **Gitlab** pipelines have `pages` step which will build sphinx documentation automatically on main branch - and it will push it to **GitLab Pages** to be statically hosted.

To access it, you need to have a link, which can be found on **GitLab -> Settings -> Pages** page.

Only people with repository access can view it.

Please read more about it [here](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/index.html).

{%- endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.ci == "Github" %}

### Github Actions Documentation

By default **Github Actions** pipelines have `documentation` workflow which will build sphinx documentation automatically on main branch - and it will push it to a branch - it can be hosted on **Github Pages** if you enable it.

To access it, you need to enable it, on **Github repository -> Settings -> Pages** page select **Deploy from a branch** and select **gh-pages**. Link will appear here after deployment.

**WARNING:** Only on Github Enterprise you can make it private so only people with repository access can view it.

Please read more about it [here](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart).

{%- endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.jupytext == "Yes" %}

# Jupyter notebooks and jupytext

To make notebooks more friendly for code review and version control we use `jupytext` to sync notebooks with python files. If you have not used it before, please read [jupytext documentation](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

There is pre-commit hook which automatically generates and syncs notebooks with python files on each commit.

Please ensure you do not edit/modify manually or by other means generated py:percent files as they will conflict with jupytext change detection and lead to endless loop.
Treat them as read-only files and edit only notebooks.

{%- endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.versioning == "Bumpversion" %}
# Semantic version bump

To bump version of the library please use `bump2version` which will update all version strings.

NOTE: Configuration is in `.bumpversion.cfg` and **this is a main file defining version which should be updated only with bump2version**.

For convenience there is bash script which will create commit, to use it call:

```bash
# to create a new commit by increasing one semvar:
$ ./bump_version.sh minor
$ ./bump_version.sh major
$ ./bump_version.sh patch
# to see what is going to change run:
$ ./bump_versemantic-release version --patch --printsion.sh --dry-run major
```
Script updates **VERSION** file and setup.cfg automatically uses that version.

You can configure it to update version string in other files as well - please check out the bump2version configuration file.
{% endif -%}

{%- if cookiecutter.versioning == "Python Semantic Release" %}
If using GitHub, you can manually trigger version check and release in GitHub Actions web GUI. It will also automatically trigger based on your commits.

You can also trigger it manually using:
```bash
# dry-run to preview changes
$ semantic-release --noop version
# dry-run to preview only the new version
$ semantic-release version --print
# to apply new version and without pushing
$ semantic-release version --no-push
# to apply new version and push
$ semantic-release version
```
{% endif -%}

{% if cookiecutter.ci == "GitLab" %}

On GitLab CI, you can build development, test package and upload it manually as minor.major.patch-dev{BUILD_NUMBER} to PIP registry.

Every MR keeps package for 7 days each (check `package` artifact).

On the main branch you can trigger _release_ which uploads minor.major.patch version to PIP registry.

{% endif %}
